# Image Encryption and Image Recognition University Project

A Procedural Programming project during my first year of university. All the code is written in C.

The project consisted of two parts:

## Code and decode a given BMP image using a given secret key
 
* the pixels of the initial image are randomly mixed using a permutation generated by Durstenfeld's algorithm

* we apply a series of transformation on the newly created array of pixels, in order to obtain a uniform distribution of colors in the encrypted image. These transformations rely on a secret key that has to be specified by the user.

* to decode the encrypted image, all we have to do is to follow the same steps mentioned above in the reversed order.
  
## Recognise specific patterns in a bigger image using Template Matching

You are given an image and a number o smaller images called patterns. The target of this part of the project is to recognise where the patterns can be recognised in the bigger image.

* get the grayscale versions of the image and patterns

* overlap each of the patterns in every possible position over the bigger image (without rotating the pattern, though) and compute the cross correlation index for each overlap. Only the detections in which the index is bigger than a threshold value are being considered (i.e. the detections where the the patterns and the image have a big degree of similarity)

* remove the overlapping template detections (i.e. if a detection with 0.9 correlation index is overlapped with a detection with a 0.7 correlation index, only the former one will be kept)

* draw rectangles on the outline of all the remaining detections to visually check how well the program performs.
